---
title: Class 1 - Pre-requisites
---

## Syllabus 

- Purpose of this class:
  - To expose and explore the opportunities in tech with a group of peers on similar coding levels.
  - No previous coding experience is required, we will approach this class with the assumption that everyone is learning this content for the firs time.

- Why we are doing this:
  - We know the importance of learning tech. And especially know the difficulties many face just to get introduced to the field. We want to educate and inform everyone that this is a possible career choice if you so choose it.

*This is the first class. The main goal is to get comfortable with the students and building a report. Some good questions we can ask to gauge the levels of experience are:*

- What is your name and current grade?
- What's one of your hobbies or something you like in general?
- What do you hope to get out of this course?

- Class work-flow will be broken into 5 parts:
  - Social checkup:
    - Are the students doing well? Check up on them as people, not as students.
  - Rewind review:
    - Review the content of the previous class, did they understand the key concepts from the previous class?
  - New content:
    - Time to learn new information! This is where we will introduce a new concept that builds from the previous class.
  - Lab/Workshop:
    - Lab, group activity that 
  - Homework

## Resources we will use during this class

- https://Codepen.io
  - Will require to make an account and is pretty simple, just go to top right to "Sign up".
  - You will be able to link using an existing Google account
- https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/

## Homework

*Psudocode Questions* - List down the exact steps for the following:

1. How to make a peanut and butter sandwich ( I know we've all done this assignment in school. )
2. You're given 5 tests to grade with a A, B, C, D, F grade. Please write which letter grade you would give if the test grades were: 99, 42, 81, 77, 82
3. The couch asks you to run 5 laps. Please write a list of things you think you need to do to successfully complete it. Think about the following questions - how do I run? how do I know which lap I'm on? When do I know to stop?
4. You are given 10 balls of three different colors: red, blue, and yellow. There are three boxes labeled "red", "blue" and "yellow". Please write exactly what you would do to put the balls in the correct boxes.
